VerteX rebranded (#1376)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/12.5-vertex/02-install-palette-vertex.md

---
title: "Installation"
metaTitle: "Installation"
metaDescription: "Review Palette VerteX system requirements."
icon: ""
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';

# Overview

Palette VerteX is available as a self-hosted application that you install in your environment. The self-hosted version is a dedicated Palette VerteX environment hosted on VMware instances or in an existing Kubernetes cluster. Self-hosted Palette is available in the following modes:

| **Self-Hosted Modes**  | **Description**                    |
|------------------------|------------------------------------|

> | VMware Enterprise Mode | A multi-node, highly available version for production purposes. |

Reviewer: FYI, it's never just `VMware`, it's always `VMware vSphere`.

---
title: "Installation"
metaTitle: "Install Palette VerteX"
metaDescription: "Learn how to install Palette VerteX."
icon: ""
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';

# Overview

Palette VerteX can be deployed in self-hosted environments as follows:

<br />

> - On VMware with internet connectivity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- On VMware vSphere with internet connectivity.
```

> - On VMware in an air-gapped environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- On VMware vSphere in an air-gapped environment.
```

- Using the Palette Helm Chart in EKS clusters.

> A Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) installer command line interface (CLI) is available for VMware vSphere environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Enterprise Cluster (EC) installer command line interface (CLI) is available for VMware vSphere environments.
```
